SCHEMA_DOCUMENTATION.md, before:

# Data Schema Documentation

This project uses a normalized SQLite database as the source of truth for all photo metadata and project information.

## SQLite Schema Overview (Current)

Tables and relationships:

- `projects`
  - Columns: `id`, `folder` (unique), `created_at`, `updated_at`

- `photos`
  - Columns (selected): `id`, `project_id` (FK), `filename`, `basename`, `ext`, `created_at`, `updated_at`,
    `date_time_original`, `jpg_available`, `raw_available`, `other_available`, `keep_jpg`, `keep_raw`,
    `thumbnail_status`, `preview_status`, `orientation`, `meta_json`
  - Indexes: filename, basename, ext, date, raw_available, orientation

- `tags`
  - Columns: `id`, `name` (unique)

- `photo_tags` (many-to-many)
  - Columns: `photo_id` (FK), `tag_id` (FK), PK(photo_id, tag_id)

Data access is through repository modules:

- `server/services/repositories/projectsRepo.js`
- `server/services/repositories/photosRepo.js`
- `server/services/repositories/tagsRepo.js`
- `server/services/repositories/photoTagsRepo.js`

Notes:

- Foreign keys and WAL are enabled in `server/services/db.js`.
- Routes (`projects.js`, `uploads.js`, `assets.js`, `tags.js`, `keep.js`) exclusively use repositories.

### Async Jobs (Queue)

Durable background jobs are stored in two tables: `jobs` and `job_items`.

- `jobs`
  - Columns: `id`, `tenant_id`, `project_id` (FK), `type`, `status`, `created_at`, `started_at`, `finished_at`,
    `progress_total`, `progress_done`, `payload_json`, `error_message`, `worker_id`, `heartbeat_at`,
    `attempts`, `max_attempts`, `last_error_at`.
  - Indexes: `(project_id, created_at DESC)`, `(status)`, `(tenant_id, created_at DESC)`, `(tenant_id, status)`.
  - Status values: `queued`, `running`, `completed`, `failed`, `canceled`.
  - Progress: `progress_total` and `progress_done` are nullable; workers should set both (or leave null for indeterminate).
  - Payload: arbitrary JSON (stringified) for worker‑specific params.

- `job_items`
  - Columns: `id`, `tenant_id`, `job_id` (FK), `photo_id` (FK nullable), `filename`, `status`, `message`,
    `created_at`, `updated_at`.
  - Indexes: `(job_id)`, `(tenant_id)`.
  - Use when a job processes multiple files so you can report per‑item progress and summaries.

- Source of truth: `server/services/db.js` (DDL), repositories in `server/services/repositories/jobsRepo.js`.
- Worker loop: `server/services/workerLoop.js` dispatches by `job.type` to worker modules under `server/services/workers/`.
- Events/SSE: `server/services/events.js` provides `emitJobUpdate` and `onJobUpdate`; `server/routes/jobs.js` exposes `GET /api/jobs/stream`.

#### Job Lifecycle

1. Enqueue: `jobsRepo.enqueue()` or `enqueueWithItems()` (when filenames are provided) from `POST /api/projects/:folder/jobs`.
2. Worker Loop picks the next `queued` job, sets `running`, `started_at`, `worker_id`, and `heartbeat_at`.
3. Worker updates `progress_*` and may update `job_items.status/message` while sending heartbeats.
4. On error: increment `attempts`; if `< max_attempts` requeue; otherwise set `failed`, `error_message`, `last_error_at`.
5. On completion: set `completed` + `finished_at`.
6. Crash recovery: stale `running` (expired `heartbeat_at`) are requeued automatically by the loop.
7. SSE events are emitted on state transitions and significant progress.

#### Typical Queries

List latest jobs for a project:

```sql
SELECT * FROM jobs WHERE project_id = ? ORDER BY created_at DESC LIMIT 50;
```

Count items by status for a job:

```sql
SELECT status, COUNT(*) AS c FROM job_items WHERE job_id = ? GROUP BY status;
```

Find running jobs and stale heartbeats (for future recovery):

```sql
SELECT * FROM jobs WHERE status = 'running' AND (strftime('%s','now') - strftime('%s', heartbeat_at)) > 60;
```

#### Extending the Schema

- Prefer placing worker‑specific parameters in `jobs.payload_json` or `job_items.message`/`filename` before adding columns.
- If you need structural changes:
  - Update DDL in `server/services/db.js`.
  - Add read/write methods in `server/services/repositories/jobsRepo.js`.
  - Update `workerLoop` and workers accordingly.
  - Document the change here (new columns, allowed values, indices).

#### Frontend Expectations

- SSE payloads include updated job fields; the UI merges by `id` and refreshes list on terminal states.
- `App.jsx` triggers a project reload on job completion so thumbnails/previews appear without manual refresh.

---

### On‑Disk Layout for Derivatives (Still used for files on disk)

- Thumbnails: `<project>/.thumb/<filename>.jpg`
- Previews: `<project>/.preview/<filename>.jpg`

### Related Backend Endpoints

- POST `/api/projects/:folder/generate-thumbnails?force=true|false`
- POST `/api/projects/:folder/generate-previews?force=true|false`
- GET `/api/projects/:folder/thumbnail/:filename` → serves generated thumbnail JPG
- GET `/api/projects/:folder/preview/:filename` → serves generated preview JPG

See implementations in `server/routes/uploads.js` and `server/routes/assets.js`.

## Database File Location

The SQLite database is located at `.projects/db/user_0.sqlite` and is automatically created on first run.

Commit message:

feat: implement project folders with unique slug--pID format and ensure trash directory

SCHEMA_DOCUMENTATION.md, after:

# Data Schema Documentation

This project uses a normalized SQLite database as the source of truth for all photo metadata and project information.

## SQLite Schema Overview

Tables and relationships:

- `projects`
  - Columns: `id` (INTEGER PK), `project_name` (TEXT), `project_folder` (TEXT UNIQUE), `created_at` (TEXT), `updated_at` (TEXT)
  - `project_folder` format: `<slug(project_name)>--p<id>` (canonical on-disk folder)

- `photos`
  - Columns (selected): `id`, `project_id` (FK), `filename`, `basename`, `ext`, `created_at`, `updated_at`,
    `date_time_original`, `jpg_available`, `raw_available`, `other_available`, `keep_jpg`, `keep_raw`,
    `thumbnail_status`, `preview_status`, `orientation`, `meta_json`
  - Indexes: filename, basename, ext, date, raw_available, orientation

- `tags`
  - Columns: `id`, `project_id` (FK), `name`, `UNIQUE(project_id, name)`

- `photo_tags` (many-to-many)
  - Columns: `photo_id` (FK), `tag_id` (FK), PK(photo_id, tag_id)

Data access is through repository modules:

- `server/services/repositories/projectsRepo.js`
- `server/services/repositories/photosRepo.js`
- `server/services/repositories/tagsRepo.js`
- `server/services/repositories/photoTagsRepo.js`

Notes:

- Foreign keys and WAL are enabled in `server/services/db.js`.
- Routes (`projects.js`, `uploads.js`, `assets.js`, `tags.js`, `keep.js`) exclusively use repositories.

### Optional Helper: parseProjectIdFromFolder(folder)

An optional utility function that parses the numeric project id from a canonical folder string `<slug>--p<id>`. It simplifies cases where only the folder is known but the `id` is desired for logging or quick lookups. In the fresh-start model, all folders have the suffix, so no fallbacks are required.

Example behavior:
```js
parseProjectIdFromFolder('Vacation_2024--p12') // => 12
```

### Async Jobs (Queue)

Durable background jobs are stored in two tables: `jobs` and `job_items`.

- `jobs`
  - Columns: `id`, `tenant_id`, `project_id` (FK), `type`, `status`, `created_at`, `started_at`, `finished_at`,
    `progress_total`, `progress_done`, `payload_json`, `error_message`, `worker_id`, `heartbeat_at`,
    `attempts`, `max_attempts`, `last_error_at`.
  - Indexes: `(project_id, created_at DESC)`, `(status)`, `(tenant_id, created_at DESC)`, `(tenant_id, status)`.
  - Status values: `queued`, `running`, `completed`, `failed`, `canceled`.
  - Progress: `progress_total` and `progress_done` are nullable; workers should set both (or leave null for indeterminate).
  - Payload: arbitrary JSON (stringified) for worker‑specific params.

- `job_items`
  - Columns: `id`, `tenant_id`, `job_id` (FK), `photo_id` (FK nullable), `filename`, `status`, `message`,
    `created_at`, `updated_at`.
  - Indexes: `(job_id)`, `(tenant_id)`.
  - Use when a job processes multiple files so you can report per‑item progress and summaries.

- Source of truth: `server/services/db.js` (DDL), repositories in `server/services/repositories/jobsRepo.js`.
- Worker loop: `server/services/workerLoop.js` dispatches by `job.type` to worker modules under `server/services/workers/`.
- Events/SSE: `server/services/events.js` provides `emitJobUpdate` and `onJobUpdate`; `server/routes/jobs.js` exposes `GET /api/jobs/stream`.

#### Job Lifecycle

1. Enqueue: `jobsRepo.enqueue()` or `enqueueWithItems()` (when filenames are provided) from `POST /api/projects/:folder/jobs`.
2. Worker Loop picks the next `queued` job, sets `running`, `started_at`, `worker_id`, and `heartbeat_at`.
3. Worker updates `progress_*` and may update `job_items.status/message` while sending heartbeats.
4. On error: increment `attempts`; if `< max_attempts` requeue; otherwise set `failed`, `error_message`, `last_error_at`.
5. On completion: set `completed` + `finished_at`.
6. Crash recovery: stale `running` (expired `heartbeat_at`) are requeued automatically by the loop.
7. SSE events are emitted on state transitions and significant progress.

#### Typical Queries

List latest jobs for a project:

```sql
SELECT * FROM jobs WHERE project_id = ? ORDER BY created_at DESC LIMIT 50;
```

Count items by status for a job:

```sql
SELECT status, COUNT(*) AS c FROM job_items WHERE job_id = ? GROUP BY status;
```

Find running jobs and stale heartbeats (for future recovery):

```sql
SELECT * FROM jobs WHERE status = 'running' AND (strftime('%s','now') - strftime('%s', heartbeat_at)) > 60;
```

#### Extending the Schema

- Prefer placing worker‑specific parameters in `jobs.payload_json` or `job_items.message`/`filename` before adding columns.
- If you need structural changes:
  - Update DDL in `server/services/db.js`.
  - Add read/write methods in `server/services/repositories/jobsRepo.js`.
  - Update `workerLoop` and workers accordingly.
  - Document the change here (new columns, allowed values, indices).

#### Frontend Expectations

- SSE payloads include updated job fields; the UI merges by `id` and refreshes list on terminal states.
- `App.jsx` triggers a project reload on job completion so thumbnails/previews appear without manual refresh.

---

### On‑Disk Layout for Derivatives (Still used for files on disk)

- Thumbnails: `<project>/.thumb/<filename>.jpg`
- Previews: `<project>/.preview/<filename>.jpg`

### Related Backend Endpoints

- POST `/api/projects/:folder/generate-thumbnails?force=true|false`
- POST `/api/projects/:folder/generate-previews?force=true|false`
- GET `/api/projects/:folder/thumbnail/:filename` → serves generated thumbnail JPG
- GET `/api/projects/:folder/preview/:filename` → serves generated preview JPG

See implementations in `server/routes/uploads.js` and `server/routes/assets.js`.

## Database File Location

The SQLite database is located at `.projects/db/user_0.sqlite` and is automatically created on first run.
